1 . Initialize new Git repository in the current directory:
    git init

2. Cloning existing repository from Git to Local:
    git clone {url}

3. Add files to staging area for next commit:
    git add <file_name>,
    git add . (for all files)

4. Commit changes with message from staging area:
    git commit -m "commit_message"

5. Display the status of working directory and staging area:
    git status

6. Show the difference between working directory and staging area:
    git diff

7. Fetch changes from remote repository's main branch and merges them to current branch:
    git pull origin main

8. Push the committed changes from local main to remote repository's main:
    git push origin main

9. List all local branches:
    git branch

10. Create new branch and switch to it:
    git checkout -b <branch-name>

11. To merge changes from one_branch to current_branch:
    git merge <one_branch>

12. Reapplies commits from the current branch on top of the main branch:
    git rebase main

13. Display history of commits in the repository:
    git log

14. Lists all the remote repositories associated with the current repository along with their URLs:
    git remote -v

15. Temporarily shelves changes that are not ready to be committed:
    git stash save "Work in progress"

16. Create a lightweight tag named v1.0 at the current commit:
    git tag v1.0

17. Download objects and refs from the remote repository named origin:
    git fetch origin

18. To set the global configuration value for the user's name and email: 
    git config --global user.name "Santhosh_Veerabathiran"
    git config --global user.email "santhosh20020923@gmail.com"
    git config --global --get user.name
    git config --local user.name "Santhosh V"
    git config --local --get user.name

19. To reset last commit which in local:
    git reset --soft HEAD~1 (reset last commit to staged changes)
    git reset HEAD~1 (reset last commit to unstaged changes)
    git reset --hard HEAD~1 (reset last commit and discard all changes)
